# Overview

This repository contains source code for the OpenMPF Keyword Tagging component.

The component uses user-specified regular expression (regex) patterns to detect
keywords and phrases. The detections are called "trigger words". The regex
patterns are grouped by "tag". When a trigger word is detected, it activates the
associated tag, which is then reported in the detection output.

This component can be used independently to perform keyword tagging on text
files, or it can be used as a support component in a multi-stage pipeline to
perform keyword tagging on feed-forward detections generated by some other
component.

# Keyword Tagging

When performing keyword tagging on a text file, the contents of the file will be
stored in a `TEXT` output property. When performing keyword tagging on
feed-forward detections generated from some other component in a multi-stage
pipeline, the output properties from that component will be preserved. This
means that if those detections have a `TEXT` output property, then this
component will generate detections with the same `TEXT` output. Similarly, if
those detections have a `TRANSCRIPT` output property, then this component will
generate detections with the same `TRANSCRIPT` output.

Keyword tagging will only be performed on one property in the feed-forward
detection. It will be the first property listed in
`FEED_FORWARD_PROPS_TO_PROCESS`, if available; otherwise, the next property in
the list is considered. All of the properties in the list will be considered in
left-to-right order. If none of the properties are available then keyword
tagging is not performed and the feed-forward detection is returned unmodified.
For example, if `FEED_FORWARD_PROPS_TO_PROCESS=TEXT,TRANSCRIPT` then keyword
tagging will be performed on the `TEXT` property, and if it's not available then
it will be performed on the `TRANSCRIPT` property. For the sake of discussion,
let's assume we need to perform keyword tagging on `TEXT`.

Regex patterns are specified in a JSON tagging file. By default this file is
located in the `config` folder as `text-tags.json`. Users can provide an
alternate path to a tagging file of their choice. English and foreign regex
patterns following UTF-8 encoding are supported. By default, regex searches are
case-insensitive.

In the tagging file, users can specify regex patterns using the [Boost library
regex operators](https://cs.brown.edu/~jwicks/boost/libs/regex/doc/syntax.html).
Of note, the `\W` non-word operator and `\b` word-break operator may prove
useful. Note that these must be escaped as `\\W` and `\\b` in JSON.

Regex tags in the JSON tagging file can be entered as follows:

```
    "TAGS_BY_REGEX": {
        "vehicle": [
            {"pattern": "auto"},
            {"pattern": "(\\b)bike(\\b)"},
            {"pattern": "(\\b)bus(\\b)", "caseSensitive": true}
        ]
        "next-tag-category" : [
            ...
        ]
    }
```

Where each `"pattern"` specifies the regex used for tagging. To enable
case-sensitive regex tag search, set the `"caseSensitive"` flag to true for each
regex pattern that requires case sensitivity. For example:

```
    {"pattern": "Financial", "caseSensitive": true}
```

Will search for words containing "Financial" with the first letter capitalized.
On the other hand the following patterns:

```
    {"pattern" :"Financial", "caseSensitive": false}
    {"pattern" :"Financial"}
```

Will search for "financial", "Financial", "FINANCIAL", and any other variation
of "financial" in terms of capitalization.

Phrases containing words separated by **zero** or more whitespace and/or
punctuation characters can be represented using `\\W*`. For example, the
`Hello(\\W*)World` regex pattern will match:

* "Hello World"
* "HelloWorld"
* "Hello.World"
* "Hello. &$#World"

Phrases containing words separated by **one** or more whitespace and/or
punctuation characters can be represented using `\\W+`.

For example, the `Hello(\\W+)World` regex pattern will match:

* "Hello World"
* "Hello.World"
* "Hello. &$#World"

But not:

* "HelloWorld"

Adding `\\b` to the start or end of a regex pattern will reject any word
characters attached to the start or end of the pattern being searched. For
example, `(\\b)search(\\W+)this(\\W+)phrase(\\b)` will match:

* "search this phrase"
* "search  this, phrase"

But not:

* "research this phrase"
* "search this phrasejunk"

Removing the leading and trailing `\\b` will allow these phrases to be matched,
excluding the extraneous leading/trailing characters.

To escape and search for special regex characters use double slashes `\\` in
front of each special character. To escape and search for a single backslash in
text, users have to specify `\\\\` as the regex pattern.

For example, to search for periods we use `\\.` rather than `.`, so the regex
pattern becomes `(\\b)end(\\W+)of(\\W+)a(\\W+)sentence\\.`. Note that the `.`
symbol is typically used in regex to match any character, which is why we use `\\.`
instead.

Each detected tag will be stored in `TAGS`, separated by semicolons. The
substring(s) that triggered each tag will be stored in `TRIGGER_WORDS`. For each
trigger word the substring index range relative to the `TEXT` output will be
stored in `TRIGGER_WORDS_OFFSET`. Because the same trigger word can be
encountered multiple times in the `TEXT` output, the results are organized as
follows:

* `TRIGGER_WORDS`: Each distinct trigger word is separated by a semicolon
followed by a space. For example: `TRIGGER_WORDS=trigger1; trigger2`
    * Because semicolons can be part of the trigger word itself, those
    semicolons will be encapsulated in brackets. For example,
    `detected trigger with a ;` in the input `TEXT` is reported as
    `TRIGGER_WORDS=detected trigger with a [;]; some other trigger`.
* `TRIGGER_WORDS_OFFSET`: Each group of indexes, referring to the same trigger
word reported in sequence, is separated by a semicolon followed by a space.
Indexes within a single group are separated by commas.
    * Example `TRIGGER_WORDS=trigger1; trigger2`,
    `TRIGGER_WORDS_OFFSET=0-5, 6-10; 12-15`, means that `trigger1` occurs twice
    in the text at the index ranges 0-5 and 6-10, and `trigger2` occurs at index
    range 12-15.

Note that all `TRIGGER_WORDS` results are trimmed of leading and trailing
whitespace, regardless of the regex pattern used. The respective
`TRIGGER_WORDS_OFFSET` indexes refer to the trimmed substrings.
