# Overview

This repository contains source code for the OpenMPF Keyword Tagging component.

The component uses user-specified regular expression (regex) patterns to detect
keywords and phrases. The detections are called "trigger words". The regex
patterns are grouped by "tag". When a trigger word is detected, it activates the
associated tag, which is then reported in the detection output.

This component can be used independently to perform keyword tagging on text
files, or it can be used as a support component in a multi-stage pipeline to
perform keyword tagging on feed-forward detections generated by some other
component.

# Inputs

When acting as a downstream stage of a feed-forward pipeline, this component will
accept feed-forward tracks as input. The `FEED_FORWARD_PROP_TO_PROCESS` job
property will be used to determine which properties in the feed-forward track
should be processed. For example, if `FEED_FORWARD_PROP_TO_PROCESS` is set to
`TEXT,TRANSLATION` then this component will look for tags in both the `TEXT` and
`TRANSLATION` properties in the feed-forward track. The trigger words for each of
these properties will be represented as seperate outputs. Refer to the Outputs
section below.

# JSON Tagging File

Regex patterns are specified in a JSON tagging file. By default this file is
located in the `config` folder as `text-tags.json`. Users can provide an
alternate path to a tagging file of their choice by setting the `TAGGING_FILE`
property. English and foreign regex patterns following UTF-8 encoding are
supported. By default, regex searches are case-insensitive.

In the tagging file, users can specify regex patterns using the [Boost library
regex operators](https://cs.brown.edu/~jwicks/boost/libs/regex/doc/syntax.html).
Of note, the `\W` non-word operator and `\b` word-break operator may prove
useful. Note that these must be escaped as `\\W` and `\\b` in JSON.

Regex tags in the JSON tagging file can be entered as follows:

```
    "TAGS_BY_REGEX": {
        "vehicle": [
            {"pattern": "auto"},
            {"pattern": "(\\b)bike(\\b)"},
            {"pattern": "(\\b)bus(\\b)", "caseSensitive": true}
        ]
        "next-tag-category" : [
            ...
        ]
    }
```

Where each `"pattern"` specifies the regex used for tagging. To enable
case-sensitive regex tag search, set the `"caseSensitive"` flag to true for each
regex pattern that requires case sensitivity. For example:

```
    {"pattern": "Financial", "caseSensitive": true}
```

Will search for words containing "Financial" with the first letter capitalized.
On the other hand the following patterns:

```
    {"pattern" :"Financial", "caseSensitive": false}
    {"pattern" :"Financial"}
```

Will search for "financial", "Financial", "FINANCIAL", and any other variation
of "financial" in terms of capitalization.

Phrases containing words separated by **zero** or more whitespace and/or
punctuation characters can be represented using `\\W*`. For example, the
`Hello(\\W*)World` regex pattern will match:

* "Hello World"
* "HelloWorld"
* "Hello.World"
* "Hello. &$#World"

Phrases containing words separated by **one** or more whitespace and/or
punctuation characters can be represented using `\\W+`.

For example, the `Hello(\\W+)World` regex pattern will match:

* "Hello World"
* "Hello.World"
* "Hello. &$#World"

But not:

* "HelloWorld"

Adding `\\b` to the start or end of a regex pattern will reject any word
characters attached to the start or end of the pattern being searched. For
example, `(\\b)search(\\W+)this(\\W+)phrase(\\b)` will match:

* "search this phrase"
* "search  this, phrase"

But not:

* "research this phrase"
* "search this phrasejunk"

Removing the leading and trailing `\\b` will allow these phrases to be matched,
excluding the extraneous leading/trailing characters.

To escape and search for special regex characters use double slashes `\\` in
front of each special character. To escape and search for a single backslash in
text, users have to specify `\\\\` as the regex pattern.

For example, to search for periods we use `\\.` rather than `.`, so the regex
pattern becomes `(\\b)end(\\W+)of(\\W+)a(\\W+)sentence\\.`. Note that the `.`
symbol is typically used in regex to match any character, which is why we use `\\.`
instead.


# Outputs

When performing keyword tagging on a text file, the contents of the file will be
stored in a `TEXT` output property. When performing keyword tagging on
feed-forward detections generated from some other component in a multi-stage
pipeline, the output properties from that component will be preserved.This
means that if those detections have a `TEXT` output property, then this
component will generate detections with the same `TEXT` output. Similarly, if
those detections have a `TRANSLATION` output property, then this component will
generate detections with the same `TRANSLATION` output.

Each input property listed in `FEED_FORWARD_PROP_TO_PROCESS` that's present, and
not just whitespace, will result in a `[TAG] TRIGGER WORDS` and 
`[TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET` output property. The `[TAG]` will be the tag property
that matched in the input text. For example, in
`FEED_FORWARD_PROP_TO_PROCESS=TEXT,TRANSLATION`, the `TEXT` and `TRANSLATION`
properties are both present, so the following output properties will be produced
if trigger words are found:

- `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS`
- `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET`
- `TRANSLATION [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS`
- `TRANSLATION [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET`

Let's assume that we need process the `TEXT` property. The substring(s) that
triggered each tag will be stored in `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS` in alphabetical
order. For each trigger word the substring index range relative to the `TEXT`
output will be stored in `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET`. Because the same
trigger word can be encountered multiple times in the `TEXT` output, the results
are organized as follows:

* `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS`: Each distinct trigger word is separated by a
semicolon followed by a space. For example: 
`TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS=trigger1; trigger2`
    * Because semicolons can be part of the trigger word itself, those semicolons
    will be encapsulated in brackets. For example, `detected trigger with a ;` in
    the input `TEXT` is reported as
    `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS=detected trigger with a [;]; some other trigger`.
* `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET`: Each group of indexes, referring to the same
trigger word reported in sequence, is separated by a semicolon followed by a
space. Indexes within a single group are separated by commas.
    * Example `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS=trigger1; trigger2`,
    `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET=0-7, 20-27; 55-62`, means that `trigger1`
    occurs twice in the text at the index ranges 0-7 and 20-17, and `trigger2`
    occurs once at index range 55-62.

Note that all `TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS` results are trimmed of leading and
trailing whitespace, regardless of the regex pattern used. The respective
`TEXT [TAG] TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET` indexes refer to the trimmed substrings.

The tags associated with the trigger words will be stored in a `TAGS` output
property in alphabetical order, separated by semicolons. Note that there is only
one `TAGS` output property. This is unlike `TRIGGER WORDS` and
`TRIGGER WORDS OFFSET`, which are prefixed by the input property that produced those
trigger words. Each tag will only appear once in `TAGS` no matter how many trigger
words activate that tag. It doesn't matter if the trigger words are found in only
one or multiple input properties defined in `FEED_FORWARD_PROP_TO_PROCESS`.
