/*****************************************************************************
* Copyright 2024 The MITRE Corporation                                       *
*                                                                            *
* Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");            *
* you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.           *
* You may obtain a copy of the License at                                    *
*                                                                            *
*    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0                              *
*                                                                            *
* Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software        *
* distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,          *
* WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.   *
* See the License for the specific language governing permissions and        *
* limitations under the License.                                             *
******************************************************************************/

This project contains content developed by The MITRE Corporation. If this code
is used in a deployment or embedded within another project, it is requested
that you send an email to opensource@mitre.org in order to let us know where
this software is being used.


The "No Language Left Behind" (NLLB) models on Hugging Face are distributed
under the CC-BY-NC-4.0 license (Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0),
hence they must be downloaded and run separately under non-commercial restrictions.

The code within this repository falls under Apache 2.0 License.

The nlp_text_splitter utlity uses the following sentence detection libraries:

*****************************************************************************

The WtP, "Where the Point", and SaT, "Segment any Text" sentence segmentation
library falls under the MIT License:

https://github.com/segment-any-text/wtpsplit/blob/main/LICENSE

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Benjamin Minixhofer, Markus Frohmann, Igor Sterner

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

*****************************************************************************

The spaCy Natural Language Processing library falls under the MIT License:

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (C) 2016-2024 ExplosionAI GmbH, 2016 spaCy GmbH, 2015 Matthew Honnibal

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.